[GLOSSARY] public key (#435)
zkSNACKs/WasabiDoc: docs/glossary/Glossary.md

Read more: [BIP 84 derivation scheme for P2WPKH based accounts](/using-wasabi/BIPs.md#bip-84-derivation-scheme-for-p2wpkh-based-accounts)
:::

:::details
### Public Key

A public key is calculated by multiplying the private key to the generator point of an elliptical curve.
Given only the public key, the private key cannot be calculated. 

> Anyone can encrypt a message to the public key, which can only be decrypted with the knowledge of the private key.

Reviewer: Anyone can encrypt a message using a public key. Then this message can only be decrypted through the related private key.

Author: ```suggestion
Anyone can encrypt a message using a public key. Then this message can only be decrypted through the related private key.
```

Given a public key and a signature over a message, anyone can verify that the signer had knowledge of the private key and message.

> In Bitcoin, the public key is the pseudonymous identity of the owner of a coin.

Reviewer: Maybe I would specify the hash of the public key.

Author: well, you cannot say that in general... 
P2PK and taproot for example are not hashed, yet still the pseudonymous identity.

Reviewer: Yeah sorry, I meant that we could change it with something like "the public key (or its hash)", but if this is confusing, nevermind.

Read more: [BIP 84 derivation scheme for P2WPKH based accounts](/using-wasabi/BIPs.md#bip-84-derivation-scheme-for-p2wpkh-based-accounts)
:::

:::details
### Public Key

> A public key is calculated by multiplying the private key to the generator point of an elliptical curve.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A public key is calculated by multiplying the private key to the generator point of an elliptic curve.
```

> Given only the public key, the private key cannot be calculated. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Given only the public key, the private key cannot be calculated.
```

Anyone can encrypt a message using a public key.

> This cyphertext message can only be decrypted through the related private key.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This encrypted message (cyphertext) can only be decrypted through the related private key.
```

> Given a public key and a signature over a message, anyone can verify that the signer had knowledge of the private key and message.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Given a public key and a signature over a message, anyone can verify that the signer had the private key that signed the message.
```

Author: what I mean here is that you need to have the actual knowledge of both the private key and the message. This is explicitly important in bitcoin, because the message is the spending tx transferring ownership. So even if I have the private key, but do not know the spending tx, then I cannot sign the ownership transfer. So I must explicitly agree to the tx.

Reviewer 2: I updated my suggestion.
